Now, let's take a look at a popular toolkit for parsing
DICOM files and simulating medical imaging networks called DCMTK.
DCMTK is an open source project.
You can check out their website.
They have a link to the GitHub repository,
where you can go and take a look at all the code
actually for all the tools that are included in the framework.
You can use the DCMTK library which has bindings to
many popular languages to parse and analyze DICOM files.
DCMTK has a decent documentation,
and the documentation actually covers a lot
of tooling that's included as a part of a DCMTK library.
This tooling is actually exists as Windows binaries and exists as packages for Linux.
So you can download DCMTK tool as your APT or whatever your favorite Linux distribution,
and you can have it in your command line by typing a simple command.
The module that we'll be focusing on in this little demo is the DCM net,
which has some of the tools for playing with DICOM networks.
Let us see how all these tools work.
So I'm logged into my Linux machine and MRI directory that's circled MRI study.
In this directory, I have a collection in MRI datasets.
This is the dataset that you have seen in the past.
So these are the MRI scans of the brain.
Let's use this tree app to see what's happening inside.
We see the same picture as we have seen in the DICOM dataset EDA screencast.
We see that we have our series and we have our DICOM files inside the series.
Let's try and move this images around to over the DICOM network.
So one thing that you can do at this point,
is call a DCMTK tool called dcmdump to take a look at one of those files. Let's do that.
So let's take a random one and let's see what is going on.
So you just need to pass a file to this tool as a parameter,
and you can see how it actually prints out all the DICOM elements right into the console.
This can be quite convenient for
some scripting operations where you want to do maybe bulk analysis
on large DICOM files and you don't have access
to things like Python interpreter or other programming languages.
This could be useful for just quick look into a DICOM file that you might get
on your server or some other type of machine that you are debugging.
We have all our standard DICOM values here.
So let us take a look at the networking aspect here.
So let us open a second terminal window,
and this window is opening in the directory called DICOM out.
This directory is empty.
So let us start a storescp.
In this lesson earlier we have talked about DICOM network and
we have talked about DICOM DMCA services.
We talked how there are service class users and service class providers.
So we will start a DICOM application instance which will
serve as a service class provider for a C-store operation,
which is a common operations for moving data over DICOM networks.
So let's type out the command here.
The DCMTK tool is called storescp,
and I pass sudo and I need to pass the ports to it.
So let's run it on port 109.
I pass the minus v commands for a verbosity,
I pass the aet parameter which tells me
what application entity title do I want for my storescp here.
Then I tell it what output directory do I want.
Table file puts everything that it will receive into the current directory.
Let me plug in one more parameter,
you can obviously read up on all of those parameters by looking at the documentation,
but the parameter will tell me to sort all the incoming data by study UIDs,
and I'll use the prefix st.
I'll launch the commands.
Nothing happened, which is good means that the thing is running.
So let me switch into my other terminal,
and lets me run the echoscu commands,
which is issuing a C-ECHO request.
Remember how we talked about the DICOM DMCA services and then there is
this DICOM ping thing which is a C-ECHO DICOM request.
So let me do that,
and let me call actually my storescp which I just brought up.
So I will call it on the local host,
I will see ping port 109 and I'll will use minus v for verbosity.
You can see that my echo-C was successful.
So DCMTK tools prints some useful information here.
So we made association,
we receive some response,
we have some success here, which is great.
We see that on the other end where storescp is running,
it is also printing some debug information into console.
It is talking to my requestor which is awesome means our network is set up.
To prove to you that I'm not fooling around here,
let's try and call something on a port where I don't have anything running.
If I call it on port 110,
it's tells me that's not successful and the connection was refused.
So right now let me try to call these storescu commands.
Try to call the storescu tool.
So the storescu tool as you might have guessed,
it instantiates the service class user which is a application entity,
which will take a bunch of DICOM files and which will issue
a C-store requests to a service class provider
that supports a C-store requests and sends them over.
So let's send over our MRI study.
So we type storescu localhost again minus v. We will use the aec parameter,
which will set up our own application entity title.
Some DICOM application entities might check this parameter,
some DICOM application entities might not check this parameters.
I use this plus r switch to tell it to go
recursively and I use the sd switch to tell it which directory to send.
Well, let's cross our fingers and press enter and see what's happening.
Okay, that did not work because I forgot to specify port.
So let's try to do it again.
We can see something is happening.
On the left here we see a lot of sending,
on the right here we see a lot of storing.
This is exactly what was supposed to be happening.
We're running a storescu here on the right and we are running a sendscu here on the left.
So if we shut down this program,
if we look up at the directory we can see that something has appeared here.
There is a directory was a st prefix,
which is what I asked it to do.
If we go into this directory and see what is happening inside,
we see a lot of files without extension.
This is actually something that you will get a lot in a DICOM networking world,
because as you're sending files across the receiving entity,
the storescp is not supposed to name it in any particular way,
and it's up to the storecpu to figure out
how to name it and what directories to place it.
So do not count that your studies in series
will always be organized in a mickey name to directories.
You might be dealing with something like you're seeing on the right hand side here,
and you might be applying some EDA methods to figure out what is going on there.
So this was a brief introduction into scripting with DCMTK and to
some of the tools that you might use to debug and simulate clinical networks.
Now, let's move on and take a look at the zero footprint viewer called OHIF.